README.md, before:

# try-regex

A repository to work on regular expressions of different programming languages(basically Python, JavaScript, Golang etc.), trying different samples as per the need based on different requirements. 

![Relative date](https://img.shields.io/date/1558767003.svg) &nbsp; ![Twitter URL](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/https/twitter.com/hygull.svg?style=social) &nbsp; ![Cocoapods](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/AFNetworking.svg)

> You can also visit https://hygull.github.io/try-regex/ to see colored beautiful documentation of this same age.


## Contents

+ [Getting started - Python's regular expressions](#python-regex)

+ [Getting started - JavaScript's regular expressions](#js-regex)


## List of functions/methods used in examples presented below

+ Basic functions/methods

1. **sub()**

2. **compile()**

3. **findall()** - a method defined on pattern object. For more details, [check this](./docs/inspect_history/compile.md).

4. **match()**

5. **finditer()** - a method which returns an iterator

+ Other functions/methods

1. **start()** - a method defined on match object

2. **end()** -  a method defined on match object

3. **span()** -  a method defined on match object




<h2 id="python-regex">Getting started - Python's regular expressions</h2>

+ Open **Python3** terminal and list out all the packages of **re** module.

```bash
Python 3.6.7 (v3.6.7:6ec5cf24b7, Oct 20 2018, 03:02:14) 
[GCC 4.2.1 Compatible Apple LLVM 6.0 (clang-600.0.57)] on darwin
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>>
>>> import re
>>> 
>>> dir(re)
['A', 'ASCII', 'DEBUG', 'DOTALL', 'I', 'IGNORECASE', 'L', 'LOCALE', 'M', 'MULTILINE', 'RegexFlag', 'S', 'Scanner', 'T', 'TEMPLATE', 'U', 'UNICODE', 'VERBOSE', 'X', '_MAXCACHE', '__all__', '__builtins__', '__cached__', '__doc__', '__file__', '__loader__', '__name__', '__package__', '__spec__', '__version__', '_alphanum_bytes', '_alphanum_str', '_cache', '_compile', '_compile_repl', '_expand', '_locale', '_pattern_type', '_pickle', '_subx', 'compile', 'copyreg', 'enum', 'error', 'escape', 'findall', 'finditer', 'fullmatch', 'functools', 'match', 'purge', 'search', 'split', 'sre_compile', 'sre_parse', 'sub', 'subn', 'template']
>>> 
```

+ Here we don't know which are callable and which are constants/variables. Have a look at the below error by assuming that **re.A** is a callable.

```python
>>> re.A()
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
TypeError: 'RegexFlag' object is not callable
>>> 
>>> re.A
<RegexFlag.ASCII: 256>
>>> 
```

+ Finding list of all callables.

> Here, in the below example you can see **re.A** is not a callable. 

```python
>>> for item in dir(re):
...     if callable(getattr(re, item)):
...         print(item)
... 
RegexFlag
Scanner
_compile
_compile_repl
_expand
_pattern_type
_pickle
_subx
compile
error
escape
findall
finditer
fullmatch
match
purge
search
split
sub
subn
template
>>> 
```

+ Retrieving all integers from text - Using **sub()** (replacement) function

```python
>>> import re
>>> 
>>> text = "These 2 days, I will do 8 imp tasks for 100 years to make $200 using 90 techniques."
>>> nums = re.sub(r"\D+", '', text)
>>> nums
'2810020090'
>>> 
>>> nums = re.sub(r"\D+", ' ', text)  # PERFECT
>>> nums
' 2 8 100 200 90 '
>>> 
>>> nums = nums.strip()  # REMOVE spaces around
>>> nums
'2 8 100 200 90'
>>> 
>>> nums = nums.split()
>>> nums
['2', '8', '100', '200', '90']
>>> 
>>> nums = map(int, nums)
>>> nums
<map object at 0x103a45160>
>>> 
>>> nums = list(nums)
>>> nums
[2, 8, 100, 200, 90]
>>> 
>>> sum(nums) # SUM OF INTEGERS
400
>>> 
```

+ Retrieving all integers from text - Using **compile()** function & **findall()** method

```python
>>> text = "These 2 days, I will do 8 imp tasks for 100 years to make $200 using 90 techniques."
>>> 
>>> p = re.compile(r"\d+")
>>> 
>>> p.findall(text)
['2', '8', '100', '200', '90']
>>> 
>>> nums = [int(num) for num in  p.findall(text)]
>>> nums
[2, 8, 100, 200, 90]
>>> 
```

+ Retrieving all integers from text - Using **compile()** function & **finditer()** method

```python
>>> text = "These 2 days, I will do 8 imp tasks for 100 years to make $200 using 90 techniques."
>>> 
>>> p = re.compile(r"\d+")
>>> 
>>> iterator = p.finditer(text)
>>> 
>>> match1 = iterator.__next__()
>>> match1.span()
(6, 7)
>>> text[6: 7]
'2'
>>> 
>>> match2 = iterator.__next__()
>>> match2.span()
(24, 25)
>>> text[24: 25]
'8'
>>> 
>>> match3 = iterator.__next__()
>>> match3.span()
(40, 43)
>>>
>>> text[40: 43]
'100'
>>> 
>>> match4 = iterator.__next__()
>>> match4.span()
(59, 62)
>>> text[59: 62]
'200'
>>> 
>>> match5 = iterator.__next__()
>>> match5.span()
(69, 71)
>>> text[69: 71]
'90'
>>> 
>>> match6 = iterator.__next__()  # Exception
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
StopIteration
>>> 
```

```python
>>> match1.start()
6
>>> match1.end()
7
>>> match2.end()
25
>>> match2.start()
24
>>> 
```

Let's use above in better way.

```python
>>> text = "These 2 days, I will do 8 imp tasks for 100 years to make $200 using 90 techniques."
>>> 
>>> p = re.compile(r"\d+")
>>> 
>>> iterator = p.finditer(text)
>>> 
>>> nums = []
>>> 
>>> for match in iterator:
...     start, end = match.start(), match.end()
...     nums.append(int(text[start: end]))
... 
>>> nums
[2, 8, 100, 200, 90]
>>> 
```

<!-- Node/JavaScript PART-->
<h2 id="js-regex">Getting started - JavaScript's regular expressions</h2>

+ Retrieving all integers from text

```javascript
➜  try-regex git:(master) ✗ node                     
> 
> let text = "These 2 days, I will do 8 imp tasks for 100 years to make $200 using 90 techniques."
undefined
> 
> let nums = text.split(/\D+/g)
undefined
> 
> nums
[ '', '2', '8', '100', '200', '90', '' ]
> 
> if(nums.length) {
...     if(!nums[0]) 
...         nums.shift()  // Remove first item from nums i.e. ''  
... 
... }
''
> 
> nums
[ '2', '8', '100', '200', '90', '' ]
> 
> if(nums.length) {
...     if(!nums[nums.length - 1]) 
...         nums.pop()  // Remove last item from nums i.e. ''  
... }
''
> nums
[ '2', '8', '100', '200', '90' ]
> 
> // Converting to integers (using map() method)
undefined
> nums = nums.map((num) => Number.parseInt(num))
[ 2, 8, 100, 200, 90 ]
> 
> nums
[ 2, 8, 100, 200, 90 ]
> 
```

> Attached screenshot

![Node-RegexScreenShot-2019-05-25-12.57.16-PM.png](./images/Node-RegexScreenShot-2019-05-25-12.57.16-PM.png)



## Python references

+ [https://www.tutorialspoint.com/python3/python_reg_expressions.htm](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/python3/python_reg_expressions.htm)

+ [https://docs.python.org/3/howto/regex.html](https://docs.python.org/3/howto/regex.html)

## JavaScript references

+ [https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_shift.asp](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_shift.asp)

+ [https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_pop.asp](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_pop.asp)

Commit message:

added javascript/node example to retrieve ints (2nd way)

README.md, after:

# try-regex

A repository to work on regular expressions of different programming languages(basically Python, JavaScript, Golang etc.), trying different samples as per the need based on different requirements. 

![Relative date](https://img.shields.io/date/1558767003.svg) ![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/hygull.svg?color=blue&logo=Rishikesh&logoColor=green&style=social)![Cocoapods](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/AFNetworking.svg) ![Cocoapods](https://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/AFNetworking.svg?color=green&label=try-regex%20%28LICENSE%29&logo=Rishikesh&logoColor=red)

> You can also visit https://hygull.github.io/try-regex/ to see colored beautiful documentation of this same age.
>
> **Note:** Here you can find examples from too simple to advanced as the purpose of this repository is to learn and earn knowledge step by step. So, please don't think too much if somewhere I expanded 1 line code to 2 or more.

## Contents

+ [Getting started - Python's regular expressions](#python-regex)

+ [Getting started - JavaScript's regular expressions](#js-regex)


## List of functions/methods used in examples presented below

+ Basic functions/methods

1. **sub()**

2. **compile()**

3. **findall()** - a method defined on pattern object. For more details, [check this](./docs/inspect_history/compile.md).

4. **match()**

5. **finditer()** - a method which returns an iterator

+ Other functions/methods

1. **start()** - a method defined on match object

2. **end()** -  a method defined on match object

3. **span()** -  a method defined on match object




<h2 id="python-regex">Getting started - Python's regular expressions</h2>

+ Open **Python3** terminal and list out all the packages of **re** module.

```bash
Python 3.6.7 (v3.6.7:6ec5cf24b7, Oct 20 2018, 03:02:14) 
[GCC 4.2.1 Compatible Apple LLVM 6.0 (clang-600.0.57)] on darwin
Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
>>>
>>> import re
>>> 
>>> dir(re)
['A', 'ASCII', 'DEBUG', 'DOTALL', 'I', 'IGNORECASE', 'L', 'LOCALE', 'M', 'MULTILINE', 'RegexFlag', 'S', 'Scanner', 'T', 'TEMPLATE', 'U', 'UNICODE', 'VERBOSE', 'X', '_MAXCACHE', '__all__', '__builtins__', '__cached__', '__doc__', '__file__', '__loader__', '__name__', '__package__', '__spec__', '__version__', '_alphanum_bytes', '_alphanum_str', '_cache', '_compile', '_compile_repl', '_expand', '_locale', '_pattern_type', '_pickle', '_subx', 'compile', 'copyreg', 'enum', 'error', 'escape', 'findall', 'finditer', 'fullmatch', 'functools', 'match', 'purge', 'search', 'split', 'sre_compile', 'sre_parse', 'sub', 'subn', 'template']
>>> 
```

+ Here we don't know which are callable and which are constants/variables. Have a look at the below error by assuming that **re.A** is a callable.

```python
>>> re.A()
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
TypeError: 'RegexFlag' object is not callable
>>> 
>>> re.A
<RegexFlag.ASCII: 256>
>>> 
```

+ Finding list of all callables.

> Here, in the below example you can see **re.A** is not a callable. 

```python
>>> for item in dir(re):
...     if callable(getattr(re, item)):
...         print(item)
... 
RegexFlag
Scanner
_compile
_compile_repl
_expand
_pattern_type
_pickle
_subx
compile
error
escape
findall
finditer
fullmatch
match
purge
search
split
sub
subn
template
>>> 
```

+ Retrieving all integers from text - Using **sub()** (replacement) function

```python
>>> import re
>>> 
>>> text = "These 2 days, I will do 8 imp tasks for 100 years to make $200 using 90 techniques."
>>> nums = re.sub(r"\D+", '', text)
>>> nums
'2810020090'
>>> 
>>> nums = re.sub(r"\D+", ' ', text)  # PERFECT
>>> nums
' 2 8 100 200 90 '
>>> 
>>> nums = nums.strip()  # REMOVE spaces around
>>> nums
'2 8 100 200 90'
>>> 
>>> nums = nums.split()
>>> nums
['2', '8', '100', '200', '90']
>>> 
>>> nums = map(int, nums)
>>> nums
<map object at 0x103a45160>
>>> 
>>> nums = list(nums)
>>> nums
[2, 8, 100, 200, 90]
>>> 
>>> sum(nums) # SUM OF INTEGERS
400
>>> 
```

+ Retrieving all integers from text - Using **compile()** function & **findall()** method

```python
>>> text = "These 2 days, I will do 8 imp tasks for 100 years to make $200 using 90 techniques."
>>> 
>>> p = re.compile(r"\d+")
>>> 
>>> p.findall(text)
['2', '8', '100', '200', '90']
>>> 
>>> nums = [int(num) for num in  p.findall(text)]
>>> nums
[2, 8, 100, 200, 90]
>>> 
```

+ Retrieving all integers from text - Using **compile()** function & **finditer()** method

```python
>>> text = "These 2 days, I will do 8 imp tasks for 100 years to make $200 using 90 techniques."
>>> 
>>> p = re.compile(r"\d+")
>>> 
>>> iterator = p.finditer(text)
>>> 
>>> match1 = iterator.__next__()
>>> match1.span()
(6, 7)
>>> text[6: 7]
'2'
>>> 
>>> match2 = iterator.__next__()
>>> match2.span()
(24, 25)
>>> text[24: 25]
'8'
>>> 
>>> match3 = iterator.__next__()
>>> match3.span()
(40, 43)
>>>
>>> text[40: 43]
'100'
>>> 
>>> match4 = iterator.__next__()
>>> match4.span()
(59, 62)
>>> text[59: 62]
'200'
>>> 
>>> match5 = iterator.__next__()
>>> match5.span()
(69, 71)
>>> text[69: 71]
'90'
>>> 
>>> match6 = iterator.__next__()  # Exception
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
StopIteration
>>> 
```

```python
>>> match1.start()
6
>>> match1.end()
7
>>> match2.end()
25
>>> match2.start()
24
>>> 
```

Let's use above in better way.

```python
>>> text = "These 2 days, I will do 8 imp tasks for 100 years to make $200 using 90 techniques."
>>> 
>>> p = re.compile(r"\d+")
>>> 
>>> iterator = p.finditer(text)
>>> 
>>> nums = []
>>> 
>>> for match in iterator:
...     start, end = match.start(), match.end()
...     nums.append(int(text[start: end]))
... 
>>> nums
[2, 8, 100, 200, 90]
>>> 
```

<!-- Node/JavaScript PART-->
<h2 id="js-regex">Getting started - JavaScript's regular expressions</h2>

+ Retrieving all integers from text (Use of split(), shift(), pop(), map() methods)

```javascript
➜  try-regex git:(master) ✗ node                     
> 
> let text = "These 2 days, I will do 8 imp tasks for 100 years to make $200 using 90 techniques."
undefined
> 
> let nums = text.split(/\D+/g)
undefined
> 
> nums
[ '', '2', '8', '100', '200', '90', '' ]
> 
> if(nums.length) {
...     if(!nums[0]) 
...         nums.shift()  // Remove first item from nums i.e. ''  
... 
... }
''
> 
> nums
[ '2', '8', '100', '200', '90', '' ]
> 
> if(nums.length) {
...     if(!nums[nums.length - 1]) 
...         nums.pop()  // Remove last item from nums i.e. ''  
... }
''
> nums
[ '2', '8', '100', '200', '90' ]
> 
> // Converting to integers (using map() method)
undefined
> nums = nums.map((num) => Number.parseInt(num))
[ 2, 8, 100, 200, 90 ]
> 
> nums
[ 2, 8, 100, 200, 90 ]
> 
```

> Attached screenshot

![Node-RegexScreenShot-2019-05-25-12.57.16-PM.png](./images/Node-RegexScreenShot-2019-05-25-12.57.16-PM.png)

+ Retrieving integers from text (Use of split(), trim(), replace(), map() methods)

```javascript
> let text = "These 2 days, I will do 8 imp tasks for 100 years to make $200 using 90 techniques."
undefined
> 
> text.replace(/\D+/g, ' ')
' 2 8 100 200 90 '
> 
> text.replace(/\D+/g, ' ').trim() 
'2 8 100 200 90'
> 
> text.replace(/\D+/g, ' ').trim().split(' ')
[ '2', '8', '100', '200', '90' ]
> 
> text.replace(/\D+/g, ' ').trim().split(' ').map((num) => Number.parseInt(num))
[ 2, 8, 100, 200, 90 ]
> 
```

## Python references

+ [https://www.tutorialspoint.com/python3/python_reg_expressions.htm](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/python3/python_reg_expressions.htm)

+ [https://docs.python.org/3/howto/regex.html](https://docs.python.org/3/howto/regex.html)

## JavaScript references

+ [https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_shift.asp](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_shift.asp)

+ [https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_pop.asp](https://www.w3schools.com/jsref/jsref_pop.asp)
